---
title: CSC 463 A1
author: Andrew Hobden (V00788452)
---

## Question 1

### Q1.A

In the "EE" model we noted:

$$\frac{ P_{xy} }{ \sum_{i \neq x}{ P_{iy} } } \geq \beta$$

In this problem we set $\beta = 1.25$. Since transmission power is the same for each node we set this to $1$.

Where $P_r(d) = \frac{P_t}{d^2}$.

* $1 \rightarrow 2$
    $$\frac{ P_{12} }{ P_{52} + P_{62} } = \frac{ \frac{1}{1^2} }{ \frac{1}{(\approx 2)^2} + \frac{1}{(2)^2} } = \frac{ 1 }{ (\approx \frac{1}{4}) + \frac{1}{4} } \approx 2 \geq \beta$$
* $5 \rightarrow 8$
    $$\frac{ P_{58} }{ P_{18} + P_{68} } = \frac{ \frac{1}{1^2} }{ \frac{1}{(\approx 2.8)^2} + \frac{1}{(2)^2} } = \frac{ 1 }{ (\approx .1275) + \frac{1}{4} } \approx 2.649 \geq \beta$$
* $6 \rightarrow 7$
    $$\frac{ P_{67} }{ P_{17} + P_{57} } = \frac{ \frac{1}{1^2} }{ \frac{1}{(\approx 2)^2} + \frac{1}{(\sqrt{2})^2} } = \frac{ 1 }{ (\approx \frac{1}{4}) + \frac{1}{2} } \approx \frac{4}{3} \geq \beta$$

$\therefore$ The maximal number of simultaneous transmissions is $3$.

### Q1.B

In the "CS Model" we note that, for example, if $1$ is transmitting $2$ and $4$ will both receive the transmission. If they are receiving another transmission at the same time this will collide.

Thus, if $1 \rightarrow 2$ then $1 \rightarrow 4$ as well. This means $4$ cannot receive data from any other node.

One solution to the maximal simultaneous network transmissions is:

* $1 \rightarrow 2$
    - $3$ cannot send data without clobbering $2$'s received data.
    - $4$ cannot receive data since $1$'s sent data would clobber it.
* $5 \rightarrow 8$
    - $3$ receives the data, but this does not effect the system.
    - $7$ cannot send data without clobbering $8$'s received data.
* $6 \rightarrow 7$
    - $4$ receives the data, but this does not effect the system.

$\therefore$ The maximal number of simultaneous transmissions is $3$.

## Question 2

$$d = 0.5 * d_2$$
$$d_3 = 1.5 * d_2$$

Allowing $d$ to be the unit, $d=1$, $d_2=2$, $d_3=3$.

Therefore if nodes $d=1$ distance away from each other, can reliably transmit $d_2=2$ distance units, and can sense $d_3=3$ distance units, then we need to consider that $N_1$ can transmit to $N_2$ or $N_3$ reliably, and $N_4$ would sense this transmission and not be able to receive other transmissions.

So, if $N_1$ transmitted, the next node that could safely transmit would be $N_5$.

$\therefore$ The number of nodes that can transmit is $\frac{n}{4}$.

## Question 3

**Notes:**

* Since the radio channel is *reliable* we don't need to think about $\text{ACK}_{Timeout}$.
* Since the channel is reliable we can assume that the connection always receives the correct 1 Mbps.
* Since there is no *fragmentation* of packets needed we can presume the packet payload size is sufficient for the message for the first, and only, frame in each.
* Referencing figure on page 93 (of PDF http://webhome.csc.uvic.ca/~wkui/Courses/wireless/802.11-1999.pdf) figure 52.

**Definitions:**

* **Slot Time:** The Slot Time (in $\mu$s) that the MAC will use for defining the PIFS and DIFS periods.
* **SIFS Time:** The nominal time (in $\mu$s) that the MAC and PHY will require to receive the last symbol of a frame at the air interface, process the frame, and respond with the first symbol on the air
interface of the earliest possible response frame.
* **$CW_{\text{min}}$:** The minimum size of the contention window, in units of `Slot Time`.
* **$CW_{\text{max}}$:** The maximum size of the contention window, in units of `Slot Time`.


### Q3.A

See attached hand-drawn figure.

### Q3.B

Time to transmit frame, as one fragment: $\frac{1024 + 272 + 128 \text{bits}}{ 1,000,000 \frac{\text{bits}}{\text{s}} } = 0.001424 \text{s} = 1424 \mu \text{s}$.
Time to transmit ACK: $\frac{ 112 + 128 \text{bits}}{ 1,000,000 \frac{\text{bits}}{\text{s}} } = 0.00024 \text{s} = 240 \mu \text{s}$




## Question 4

$$E_{Tx}(d)=c(d^2)$$
$$E_{Total}=E_{Tx}(d)+E_{Rx}=c(d^2)+E_{Rx}$$

**Notes:** Because it is not noted otherwise,

* We consider $E_{Rx}$ to be a constant.
* We assume $E_{Rx}$ is only a cost that the intended receiver pays, not all devices receiving the transmission.
* We assume the distance between nodes $AB$, $CD$, $AD$, $BC$ is $1$.
* $N_i$ denotes a node with ID $i$. $D_{ij}$ is the distance between nodes $i$ and $j$.
* The traffic generated by a node node is $T_i$, however since all are the same $T$ can be used to simplify.

| Sender  | Receiver | Probability |
|:-------:|:--------:|:-----------:|
| E       | A        | 0.5         |
| E       | B        | 0.2         |
| E       | C        | 0.2         |
| E       | D        | 0.1         |
| A,B,C,D | E        | 0.6         |
| A,B,C,D | A,B,C,D  | 0.4         |

$N_E$ receives $0.6(T_A + T_B + T_C + T_D)=0.6*4*T=2.4T$. Since these values are all equal it does not factor into our consideration of where to place $N_E$, since any cost 'paid' moving it farther from a node would be 'returned' since it would be closer to another. (So long as it stays inside the rectangle.)

Therefore we only need to consider the position of $N_E$ in relation to its transmissions.

$$0.5(c(D_{EA}^2)+E_{Rx}) + 0.2(c(D_{EB}^2)+E_{Rx}) + 0.2(c(D_{EC}^2)+E_{Rx}) + 0.1(c(D_{ED}^2)+E_{Rx})$$

First, assigning a coordinate system to the square. We will set $(0,0)$ to be the center point and align the coordinate signs as you would a Cartesian space.

$$ x = (Bx+Cx) - (Ax+Dx) $$
$$ y = (Ay+By) - (Cy+Dy) $$

Substituting...

$$ x = (.2 - .2) - (.5 - .1) = -.2 $$
$$ y = (.5 - .2) - (.2 + .1) = .4 $$

$\therefore$ The most efficient placement of $E$ is at $(-.2, .4)$.

## Question 5

$$ E_{T_x}(d)=cd^\alpha $$

$$ \angle BAC = \theta $$

### Q5.a

$$ d_1 < d_3\cos{\theta} $$

Where $\alpha=2$.

$$ E_{T_x}(d_1) + E_{T_x}(d_2) = cd_1^2 + cd_2^2 = c(d_1^2 + d_2^2) $$

$$ E_{T_x}(d_3) = cd_3^2 = cd_3^2 $$
